README.md, before:

![platform-version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10.2-1666a9)
![formatter](https://img.shields.io/badge/formatter-Black-000000)
![flexit-ci](https://github.com/aloutfi/flexit/actions/workflows/flexit-ci.yml/badge.svg)

# flexit

This package represents the persistence and business logic layers for flexit. 
It utilizes SQLAlchemy for database transactions and Pydantic for data transfer objects.

The project uses poetry for packaging functionality and pytest for its tests.

## Usage
You can install flexit as you would any other python package.


### As a dependency
```bash
pip install https://github.com/aloutfi/flexit/raw/main/dist/flexit-1.0.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

Then, add the `DATABASE_URL` as an environment variable.

### Development
```bash
poetry install

cp settings.ini.in settings.ini
```
#### Database access
The system is configured to run on a postgres database. You can configure local setup via docker-compose
```bash
docker-compose up
```

If using your own solution, set the `DATABASE_URL` in the `settings.ini` file if you are not using the docker-compose setup..

Commit message:

docs: updated README instructions to include data load

README.md, after:

![platform-version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10.2-1666a9)
![formatter](https://img.shields.io/badge/formatter-Black-000000)
![flexit-ci](https://github.com/aloutfi/flexit/actions/workflows/flexit-ci.yml/badge.svg)

# flexit

This package represents the persistence and business logic layers for flexit. 
It utilizes SQLAlchemy for database transactions and Pydantic for data transfer objects.

The project uses poetry for packaging functionality and pytest for its tests.

# Installation

## As a dependency
You can install flexit as you would any other python package.
```bash
pip install https://github.com/aloutfi/flexit/raw/main/dist/flexit-1.0.0-py3-none-any.whl
```
Then, add the `DATABASE_URL` as an environment variable.

## Development
```bash
poetry install
cp settings.ini.in settings.ini
```
### Database provisioning 
The system is configured to run on a postgres database. You can configure local setup via docker-compose
```bash
docker-compose up
```
Set the `DATABASE_URL` in the `settings.ini` file if you are not using the docker-compose setup.

Finally, load the initial data into the database:
```bash
python -c 'from flexit.config import init_db; init_db(True)'
```
